Investigation Title	Transcription profiling of Arabidopsis Col-0 inoculated with AM fungi to test for the presence of arbuscular mycorrhizal signalling pathways					
Comment[Submitted Name]	Testing Arabidopsis for the presence of arbuscular mycorrhizal signalling pathways					
Experimental Design	unknown_experiment_design_type	transcription profiling by array				
Experimental Design Term Source REF		EFO				
Comment[AEExperimentType]	transcription profiling by array					
Comment[AEExperimentDisplayName]	Transcription profiling by array of Arabidopsis after infection with Gigaspora rosea					
Comment[ArrayExpressReleaseDate]	2008-06-11					
Comment[SecondaryAccession]	GSE10323					
Comment[AEMIAMESCORE]	3					
Comment[ArrayExpressAccession]	E-GEOD-10323					
Comment[MAGETAB TimeStamp_Version]	2010-07-29 18:31:38 Last Changed Rev: 13058					
Experimental Factor Name	INFECTION					
Experimental Factor Type	infect					
Experimental Factor Term Source REF						
Person Last Name	(NASC)					
Person First Name	Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre					
Person Mid Initials						
Person Email	affy@arabidopsis.info					
Person Phone						
Person Fax						
Person Address	School of Biosciences, University of Nottingham, Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC), Sutton Bonington Campus, Loughborough, LE12 5RD, United Kingdom					
Person Affiliation	Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC)					
Person Roles	submitter					
Person Roles Term Source REF	The MGED Ontology					
Quality Control Type						
Quality Control Term Source REF						
Replicate Type						
Replicate Term Source REF						
Normalization Type						
Normalization Term Source REF						
Date of Experiment						
Public Release Date	2008-06-11					
PubMed ID						
Publication DOI						
Publication Author List						
Publication Title						
Publication Status						
Publication Status Term Source REF						
Experiment Description	Around two-thirds of all plant species form arbuscular mycorrhizasa symbiosis between plant roots and glomalean fungi that leads to the formation of intraradical organs of nutrient exchange and an extraradical network of fungal hyphae effectively extending the plant root system. The mycorrhiza plays a key role in plant nutrition and in enhancing plant resistance against pathogens and improving drought resistance. At present very little is known about the molecular basis of arbuscular mycorrhiza formation. Arabidopsis thaliana (as with all Brassicaceae) does not form arbuscular mycorrhizas (AM). Arabidopsis may either have lost essential gene functions or acquired new ones that prevent a successful symbiotic interaction. However given that mycorrhizal symbiosis developed very early during the evolution of land plants and that many ectomycorrhizal plant species can be colonised by AM fungi it is likely that important components of AM signalling pathways are conserved in all plants including Arabidopsis. Possibly the lack of AM development is a multigenic trait and this would make it difficult to isolate mutants that (re-)gain the ability to interact with AM fungi. What can be done however is firstly to test which parts of one or several putative AM signalling pathways are still functional and which ones are not. Secondly we can test whether negatively acting pathways such as those involved in defence against pathogenic microorganisms are induced upon inoculation with AM fungi. Together this work is likely to give important information of why Arabidopsis (and Brassicaceae) are behaving as non-hosts for AM fungi. In other words Arabidopsis will be an ideal system to study mechanisms of non-host "resistance" to AM colonisation. Elucidating these mechanisms will obviously make a great contribution to understanding the basis of the mycorrhizal interaction. Moreover using Arabidopsis as a tool it will be possible at the end to integrate the information obtained for AM signalling with that obtained for other developmental and environmentally triggered signalling pathways such as plant hormone signalling or plant defence responses. To produce an inventory of which Arabidopsis genes respond at all to inoculation with AM fungi a genome-wide screen for AM-controlled genes is proposed. RNA will be prepared from Arabidopsis roots treated with AM fungus and mock-inoculated control plants. Arabidopsis (Col-0) will be grown in pot culture (1:1 sand/Terra-Green) at low concentrations of phosphate. Three week-old plants will be inoculated with surface-sterilised spores of Gigaspora rosea. RNA will be isolated 3 days post inoculation. Experimenter name: Hsiu-Ling Yap; Experimenter phone: 01904 434 302/304; Experimenter fax: 01904 434 312; Experimenter institute: University of York; Experimenter address: Department of Biology; University of York; P.O.Box 373; York!Series_summary = Experimenter zip/postal_code: YO10 5YW; Experimenter country: UK Experiment Overall Design: 4 samples were used in this experiment					
Protocol Name	P-10323-4	P-10323-1	P-10323-3	P-10323-2	Affymetrix:Protocol:Hybridization-Unknown	P-AFFY-6
Protocol Type	specified_biomaterial_action	specified_biomaterial_action	nucleic_acid_extraction	labeling	hybridization	feature_extraction
Protocol Description	Inoculated with wetted sterile filter paper	Inoculated with pre-germinated Gigaspora rosea spores	none supplied	RNA samples were quality controlled using the Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer. 100 pmol T7-(dT)24 primer (5'-GGCCAGTGAATTGTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGAGGCGG-(dT)24-3') was hybridized with the Total RNA ( 8 - 12ug) at 70oC for 10 minutes. First strand cDNA was synthesized by reverse transcription using 400 units SuperScript II Reverse Transcriptase in a reaction containing 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.3), 75 mM KCl, 3 mM MgCl2, 10 mM dithiothreitol (DTT) and 0.5 mM dNTPs at 42C for 1 hour. The reaction was then put on ice for 2 mins, followed by second strand cDNA synthesis. 130ul of the second strand reaction mix was added to the 20ul first strand synthesis reaction. The second strand reaction mix contained 40 units E. coli DNA polymerase I, 10 units E. coli DNA ligase, 2 units E. coli RNase H and 0.2 mM dNTPs in a buffer containing 20 mMTris-HCl (pH 6.9), 90 mM KCl, 4.6 mM MgCl2, 10mM (NH4)SO4 and 0.15 mM beta-NAD+. The reaction was incubated at 16 C for 2 hours. 10 units T4 DNA Polymerase was added and the reaction incubated for a further 5 minutes at 16 C, then the reaction was terminated using EDTA. The double-stranded cDNA was cleaned up using the cDNA Cleanup Spin Column supplied in the Affymetrix GeneChip Sample Cleanup Module. The double-stranded cDNA was used as a template for in Vitro transcription of biotin-labeled cRNA using the ENZO BioArray RNA Transcript Labeling Kit supplied by Affymetrix. The Transcript Labeling kit produces large amounts of hybridizable biotin-labeled RNA targets by in Vitro transcription from bacteriophage T7 RNA polymerase promoters. The reaction mixture containing Biotin-Labeled ribonucleotides (ATP, GTP, CTP, UTP with Bio-UTP and Bio-CTP), DTT, RNase inhibitor mix and T7 RNA polymerase was incubated at 37 C for 5 hrs, gently mixing every 30 minutes during the incubation. This produced an average of 40ug biotin-labeled cRNA . The biotin-labeled cRNA was cleaned up using the cRNA Cleanup Spin Column supplied in the Affymetrix GeneChip Sample Cleanup Module. The quantity and quality of the cRNA was measured using the Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer. The total amount of cRNA was calculated, the starting quantity of RNA subtracted to give the quantity of adjusted cRNA. The cRNA was fragmented by metal-induced hydrolysis to break down full-length cRNA to 35-200 base fragments. 15ug of adjusted cRNA was used to prepare 300ul of hybridization cocktail of which 200ul was hybridized with the GeneChip.	Title: Affymetrix Generic Hybridization. Description: 	Title: Affymetrix CEL analysis. Description: 
Protocol Parameters						
Protocol Hardware						
Protocol Software					MicroArraySuite 5.0	MicroArraySuite 5.0
Protocol Contact						
Protocol Term Source REF					mo	
SDRF File	E-GEOD-10323.sdrf.txt					
Term Source Name	NCBI Taxonomy	The MGED Ontology	ArrayExpress	EFO	The MGED Ontology	mo
Term Source File	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Taxonomy/	http://mged.sourceforge.net/ontologies/MGEDontology.php	http://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress	http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/	http://mged.sourceforge.net/ontologies/MGEDontology.php	http://mged.sourceforge.net/ontologies/MGEDontology.php
Term Source Version						
